object storage= data stores unsystematically
block storage= data stores systematically

master node

 controller manager (having all kinds of manager)
API (intermediator between controller  manager and etcd)
etcd (stores all the information of cluster nodes)
scheduler(schedule pod as per etcd information)


controll manager= it collect all the information of cluster nodes and provides it to etcd. controll manager only can directly communicate with pod.
API= take request from  controller manager  and send it to etcd
etcd= check the information of clusternode and send it to scheduler.
scheduler= schedule pods on clusternode.

slave node

kubelet= check the  pod is up or not
kubeproxy= manage networking of pod like inbound and outbound traffic on pod
container runtime= keep the pod  up continuously

azure ad
 
manage identity and governance in  azure.
manage internal and external access
create multiple user
manage user data 
monitoring user data
manage access of user
integration  of external and internal application.
provides sso

identity - an identity is an username and password
account  -  an identity data associated with it 
azure ad account - account provided by azure ad 
subscription - used for billling of resources

vm   - vm is an operating system physical not virtual
vnet - vnet is a logical firewall.vnet is a fundamental building block for private network.it provides isolation to subnet.
       if resources are in vnet isolation then noone can access it until and unless you allow them.
subnet - logical grouping of vnet is called subnet.subnet takes ip from  vnet.

storage account - it contains structured and unstructured data.
structured - table and queue
table      - structured format data
queue      - used for technical messaging,
             maximum size of queue is 500 TB
             maximum size of message storage of queue is 64 kb
blob  -   it contains structured and unstructured data
fileshare - it contains files data of azure 

AKS CLUSTER - it is managed container orchestraion  service provided by microsoft  azure
              it allows you to scale deploy and manage containerized applicaions using kubernetes.
ACR         - it is managed container registry service provided by microsoft azure. 
            - it keep your storage private and secured. 
            - manage the image it integrate with other azure services like aks, devops.
            - integrate with docker and pull the image from docker directly into your acr repository.

pod      - pod is smallest unit of deployment in aks

ingress  - ingress is a path router of servises.
           it manages division of traffic. it is the path divider.
 



                  




           



